# **DATA MODELLING WITH POSTGRES**

## **Introduction**
A music streaming startup, Sparkify, has grown their user base and song database and want to move their processes and data onto the cloud. Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

As their data engineer, I am tasked with building an ETL pipeline that extracts their data from S3, stages them in Redshift, and transforms data into a set of dimensional tables for their analytics team to continue finding insights into what songs their users are listening to. I have tested the database and ETL pipeline by running queries given to me by the analytics team from Sparkify and compare your results with their expected results.

---

## **Files description**
- **sql_queries.py**: File containing the SQL queries used in the files described below. The queries defined in this file delete the already existing tables, create new ones, copy the information from different JSON files to staging tables and finally insert the values into the tables created previously after applying some transformation operations.
- **create_tables.py**: Python file creating the tables which are being used afterwards for storing the information in Redshift by using the queries from *sql_queries.py*.
- **etl.py** : Python file which load the information from the JSON files to staging tables into a S3 bucket and, after several transformation operations, insert the corresponding values into the tables created by *create_tables.py*.
- **dwh.cfg**: File containing the cluster access information, the IAM Role data and the path to the JSON files from which the information is extracted to run the ETL. For confidentiality reasons, I have left sensitive data hidden.
---

## **Interaction with the project**
The project datasets can be accessed through the following links:
- **Song data**: *s3://udacity-dend/song_data*
- **Log data**: *s3://udacity-dend/log_data*

And log data json path: *s3://udacity-dend/log_json_path.json*

**Song dataset**: The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are file paths to two files in this dataset.

**Log dataset**: The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings. The log files in the dataset you'll be working with are partitioned by year and month.



---

## **Database schema design and ETL pipeline**
**FACT TABLES**

1. **songplay** - records in event data associated with song plays i.e. records with page *NextSong*: *songplay_id*, *start_time*, *user_id*, *level*, *song_id*, *artist_id*, *session_id*, *location*, *user_agent*

**DIMENSION TABLES**

2. **users** - users in the app: *user_id*, *first_name*, *last_name*, *gender*, *level*
3. **songs** - songs in music database: *song_id*, *title*, *artist_id*, *year*, *duration*
4. **artists** - artists in music database: *artist_id*, *name*, *location*, *latitude*, *longitude*
5. **time** - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units: *start_time*, *hour*, *day*, *week*, *month*, *year*, *weekday*

# IMAGEN DE COMO QUEDA EL ESQUEMA

---
## **Licensing, Authors, Acknowledgements, etc.**
- **Author**: The author of this analysis is Gonzalo Gomez Millan
- **Acknowledgment**: Also noteworthy is the work of **Udacity** in promoting the performance of this analysis as one of the projects in order to pass the Data Engineering Nanodegree Program.